kisin thanks for speaking to DW um
Israel is saying that it it's on the
brink of mounting a new offensive
against Rafa the town very the very
bottom of the Gaza Strip over a million
gazans have sought Refuge there there
are fears that there could be another
wave of of casualties if we look at
Germany and the United States you know
really Israel's two biggest supporters
are we getting to the point where you
think they need to say to Israel enough
is enough well the German foreign
minister has already said it's hell
there and um I think this um must not
happen um the protection of civilians is
key so many um thousands of children
have already been killed and um there is
apparently no end inight so I really
hope that um netan reconsiders that he
does what 150 countries and more asked
in the United Nations and finally agreed
to ceasefire and yet that message is
evidently not not getting through from
Germany or the United States to
Netanyahu well it's um for um the
politicians to see what instruments do
they have so that their appeal um is
actually hurt we have seen President
Biden we have seen Tony blinkin ask um
netan to to stop and and have a
ceasefire to allow for more um for more
help to come in and um we'll see in in a
short time when um the Israeli
government has to deliver a report to
the international court of justice what
it does to prevent genocide and we we
need we need to stop of of this killing
do you believe that that there is any
evidence that the genocide could be
taking place or a risk of taking place
well the this is what the international
court has said by accepting um the South
African request and it has said there is
a danger of genocide and to prevent this
um it asks certain measures to be taken
and um this um will now have to be
delivered to the court and we we'll see
what Israel does to prevent a genocide
now all of this means that the Germany
the United States and also other Western
supporters of Israel find themselves
accused of of caring more say about
Ukrainian civilians than about
Palestinian
civilians by the sound of what you're
saying it sounds like you can understand
where that criticism is coming from well
we um we hear this as I said there are
150 countries who urgently ask for for a
ceasefire this is a majority of of of
Nations um and I think this is something
that um the International Community asks
for and I think this is what um should
be asked um the Israeli government to to
actually Implement now the other kind
major conflict not far from here that
that's raging in Europe of course
Russia's um war against Ukraine uh which
has been grinding on for so long long um
we see uh a certain amount of jitters in
the west here um we see that American
Military Support could be you know close
to the brink of collapse we saw Olaf
Schultz of J Cher was just in Washington
he warned that uh Ukraine is absolutely
dependent on that support the
implication the strong implication being
that if that support Falls away then
Ukraine loses is that the situation
we're looking at well we um the jury is
still out I think that the US president
the US government um is pushing um for
um the continuation of um delivery of
weapons to to Ukraine we just saw that
in the Senate there was a two-thirds
majority in in favor it and I just can't
believe that um us
parliamentarians um will let um Ukraine
down and will um Putin Vladimir Putin um
strike a victory um so I don't believe
that on the other hand what I must say
there is also there's always something
positive even in the worst developments
and this is a European Awakening we see
very clear the the German Chancellor
assuming a leading role in Europe to for
the support of um Ukraine he is um um
really drumming up support from his
European Partners to do more I think
we'll see a drive now for more European
Defense for the European Union to assume
more responsibility and this is what we
need in general we need the European
Union um the European countries um the
European members of NATO to assume more
responsibility for European um security
because no matter who will um be the
next US president it's clear that the US
will have to concentrate on their
domestic challenges and they will um
concentrate on Asia and therefore Europe
has to do its home homework yeah and of
course I mean you talking about the
elephant in the room causing a lot of
angst here in Europe a possible second
Trump Administration over the weekend
Donald Trump was saying that he would
even encourage Vladimir Putin to attack
NATO members that he feels are not
paying his dues their dubes what does
Europe need to do in that regard because
Europe is totally dependent on American
nuclear weapons well um there are
several questions but first of all um
that may surprise you but um Donald
Trump has a point know the European
members of NATO all member states of
NATO have committed 10 years ago to
spend 2% of their GDP on defense and
many countries including my own have not
delivered they have only now finally um
you know with um um you know with a
special effort um reach these 2% and um
it will be key that Germany and other
partners continue to do that not to do a
favor to president Trump but um to
secure European uh protection to
strengthen the European um um European
part of of of NATO with regard to um
European cooporation with regard to the
nuclear umbrella of course we rely on um
on the US um but at the same time I
think it it would be safe um for Germany
um for the other um European NATO
Partners to actually pick up what um the
French president has offered to have a
discussion about the force fra about the
nuclear um French forces and we should
add Great Britain to that discussion and
see how much are we ready to have as a
complimentary Shield a a European
protection by those Europeans who um
have at their disposal their own nuclear
forces now at the same time on Ukraine
you've been saying that it's really time
time to be thinking about the form of
negotiations that could happen at the
end of this conflict whenever this
conflict does come to an end uh a
ceasefire and a negotiating process what
could that involve how do you envisage
that well when you look at conflicts
worldwide most um uh have not only end
ended but they have ended with some kind
of agreement and therefore um I think we
have to look at it it could be something
like the um Minsk agreement which is not
favorable looked at but I think it's not
favor looked at not because of its
content because the content is pretty
normal you ask for a ceasefire you ask a
withdrawal of uh heavy weapons you have
an observer troop you have a political
perspective all this the criticism that
is at Minsk and other agreements is that
Russia just um tear these kind of um
agreements apart when it suits um the
president and therefore what is key for
any agreement that we could enter and um
could have in the end there have to be
guarantees there have to be security
guarantees that Vladimir Putin knows he
has to pay a prize if he again tear up
an agreement and from my perspective the
best would be for Ukraine to join NATO
the strongest military Alliance um and
do you imagine that as being part of a
deal where then Ukraine does seed some
territory to Russia so Russia keeps the
donbass the rest of Ukraine goes into
NATO for instance I think it's a very
bad idea just to think about seeding
territory this means that by force you
change borders in in Europe and I think
that cannot be part of any any agreement
no it's um you know what kind of
agreement we have in the end you know we
we have to see the ukrainians have to
decide for this could this be you know
something temporary as it was foreseen
for the donbas in the 2015 Minsk
agreement um this is for the ukrainians
to to decide how they want to play it um
but again to change borders in Europe by
force would set a a horrible precedent I
think shouldn't be key is security key
is guarantee so that Putin knows this is
where the buck stops yeah and it it it's
clear in your own report that ukrainians
don't want to give up any territory and
that is of course uh highly
understandable but the Minsk agreement
it just froze the conflict and isn't
this the consider like well you have to
understand this is only you know part of
it it um when Minsk was concluded there
was um Russia was attacking president
penko told Chancellor Merkel he needs to
have a a ceasefire because otherwise the
Russian troops at the time could March
all the way to M to to Kev so what was
Min about was a ceasefire which the by
the way the Russians didn't really
observe but it did have this political
perspective that um you know after a
certain you know um autonomy that would
have been granted to the donbas there
would be a kind of reunification and and
Ukraine would again have the sovereignty
of over over this territory so the um I
think the agreement was a was a good one
uh the problem was the implementation
that Russia Vladimir Putin was not ready
to to implement it um but just a final
question I mean you suggest that there
could be an agreement where Russia
withdraws all of its troops and Ukraine
also joins NATO for Russia to go along
with something like that they would
probably need to be under much greater
military pressure than they are now
wouldn't they well this is why um we
have to see that Ukraine continues to be
armed with all arms uh that are at our
disposal because after all they defend
our freedom it's it's the ukrainians but
also ours because Vladimir Putin has
said publicly that he wouldn't stop
there so we we have to do um we have to
have to support um for Vladimir Putin he
has to understand that he cannot gain by
prolonging this war that he cannot win
this war and um you you can see that um
while he gives the um appearance of
being the strong man who has everything
under control that um you know there are
the first effects of and strong effects
of sanctions you know their Fleet of
airplanes from Airbus and boing is is
grounded you could see that he lost
faith last week when he had to stop one
of the candidates that who nobody knew
before was running for president on a um
you know on a ticket that was you know
against the war and he was um scared
that all of a sudden the momentum this
person created was enormous so that he
had to um stop that this shows um a sign
of weakness um and um so we have to
continue to push him into this one of
the things is very important by the way
is and we try to do this also on the
Munich security conference that we have
to talk to those countries that um don't
Implement sanctions to think about this
to think about um um if it wouldn't suit
their interests better if an aggressor
like um Russia would be put into um his
place to stop um similar um uh you know
things from happening in other parts of
the world so lots of look out for the
munity security conference thank you
very much Christo thank you very much
for for your questions